1999 my key turning point in the
wrestling video game landscape when the
World Wrestling Federation approached
THQ to make a few video games ostensibly
ending a 12 year long relationship with
their previous partner acclaim
entertainment and beginning one will
teach to you that will result in a long
fruitful relationship that continues to
this day
while Nintendo 64 owners would get solid
wrestling titles such as WWF
wrestlemania 2000 and WWF no mercy and
dreamcast owners would get a decent home
port of the WWF Royal Rumble arcade game
before the system was unceremoniously
shit-canned PlayStation owners were
graced with WWF Smackdown the first game
and a long line of video games on the
PlayStation family that would eventually
evolve to the bartered a multi-platform
WWE Smackdown vs. raw series of sports
entertainment titles which would further
evolved to the current WWE series and
while recent offerings attempted to
portray a more realistic wrestling
atmosphere WWF Smackdown aply s1 opted
for a more arcade ish faster paced
gameplay format that generally made the
game much easier to get into and
arguably more enjoyable than claims
prior offerings no longer will you
shackled to memorizing 10 step button
sequences to perform in our bar or
referring to the moves list every 10
seconds or so to recall such
combinations now all it took was a d-pad
direction and a grapple or strike button
press and fall off wrestling holds right
out of the box want to inform your
wrestlers finishing moves such as the
Stone Cold Stunner or the people's elbow
just fill up your Smackdown leader get
your opponent in the proper position
press l1 and back ripe for the
one-two-three or knocked out cold by
your fierce prowess it was this simple
clear-cut format that made the game easy
to get into and ensured good times to be
had by all and while it's not the
deepest wrestling engine you'll find
submission moves don't hold for too long
and weight class differences are
arbitrary at best the game flows that
arrests are decent pace and in the long
run the game is designed with the
emphasis on speed in action rather than
any semblance of technical wrestling
acumen much like the WWF product of the
time right off the bat you have multiple
match type singles tag matches steel
cage matches Royal Rumble
matches and such you now have the
prerequisite created wrestler mode which
is rather bare-bones all you really do
is assign predetermined body parts
together to create your superstar and
the customization is virtually
non-existent
they also tossed in backstage areas that
you could move around it during hardcore
matches and you can take the fight from
the rink to the state to the backstage
area and vice versa which is something
you can't even do in the modern
iterations of the series you also have a
dedicated season mode which allows you
to participate in storylines the season
mode is at its most basic you partake in
one show per month usually a raw
followed by Smackdown for before the
eventual pay-per-view sometimes you'll
even partake in the house show which is
something not evident in current
Smackdown vs. raw games and every so
often a cutscene will pop up to show
storylines whether you're in them or not
every season you play through you'll
earn new parts to build your custom
Superstars with no no unlockable
characters here you actually have to
build them
there's also rankings and built records
that you can even defend your
championships and standard exhibition
matches which is a really nifty feature
that still lives on some form or fashion
and the current iterations God knows
we've used plenty of these all day long
this is a pretty packed game so far a
plethora of superstars match types
options create your own pay-per-view
title defenses on-the-fly backstage
brawls not too shabby and on top of that
get smackdowns gameplay is pretty
effective intuitive it's not overly
complicated it's not something that
requires degree in astrophysics to
understand
it's simple responsive and easy to get
into smackdowns visual presentations is
a bit of a mixed bag well I'm not the
biggest fan of the acclaim efforts in
regards to the gameplay the character
models and arenas in those games did
possess a polished look to them it's in
this in essence it resulted in the
cleaner looking game Smackdown sports an
overall rougher looking game in regards
to the you read and especially the
various superstar models whose textures
seem particularly grainy from my vantage
point at least I think this was done
purposely so that the character models
don't appear as blocky
as the acclaim efforts it's not bad
though the graphics are alright but it's
just something I kind of noticed when
playing this and even thought this back
when the game was brand spanking new the
other deals is already entrances or
rather lack thereof all you get is your
superstar posing and
while they're titantron videos playing
in the background it's a little jarring
little disappointing considering
wrestlemania 2000 on the Nintendo 64
does feature full ring entrances well as
full as you were gonna get on the n64 I
suppose even attitude had full ring
entrances so I don't know what the deal
is here sadly it's the same issue as
Smackdown to know your role although the
series would get full ring entrances one
is to once they graced the PlayStation 2
but one step at a time here spotty
commentary from the past WWF offerings
have been dropped in favor to park 80
rock music that plays in the background
while matches are in progress a rather
rough shot collection of tunes that are
admittedly rather listenable and suits
the needs of filling the void in all
honesty though given the choice between
generic rock music and generic
commentary tracks I much rather have the
generic music sometimes generic music is
more tolerable to these years than
generic repetitive commentary not always
but sometimes the sound effects are
alright I guess there's not really much
to say about those you have your there's
no grunt in this but you do have a rough
count and stuff like that and yeah it's
just fine overall for a first effort WWF
Smackdown turned out pretty damn good
and address some of the problems that
persisted in the claims efforts of
course team ended up with some new
problems that those are admittedly my
new issues to an otherwise superb first
effort is this game worth picking up
well I guess if you find a copy for a
few bucks I guess you could go for it
the pretty good game while deserving the
praise it garnered back in the day and
it's certainly a major improvement over
claims games which sort of justified the
W Davis decision and jumping ship so to
speak
however while Smackdown was a good start
in its own right the sequel is a
slightly better package that will look
at some other time
you